---
title: "Servers, Signals, and Self-Reflection"
date: 2025-09-05
draft: false
---
A week without a post, which you know means a properly busy week for me. When I'm not writing, it's because I'm up to my neck in projects that seemed like good ideas at the time.

The radio repair saga continues, though with a plot twist. The TS930S I've been wrestling with turned out to be too far gone to be economically viable to repair - it's found a new home at one of the radio clubs now, so at least it's not cluttering up my bench anymore. But nature abhors a vacuum, apparently, so I've started on a new radio repair project: an old Icom HF transceiver that's got me properly puzzled.

The thing receives fine (well, maybe - hard to tell without proper testing), but has absolutely no transmit power. Yet here's the kicker - it reports full transmit power on the display. It's sitting there smugly telling me everything's fine whilst producing about as much RF as a dead hamster. Either the power sensing circuit has gone completely barmy, or there's something spectacularly wrong with the final amplifier stage. Could be anything from a bad diode to a blown final transistor that probably hasn't been made for the last 30-odd years. Should be interesting to track down, assuming I can find a legible copy of the service manual online.

The bigger project eating up most of my time this week has been getting all my assorted bits and pieces self-hosted properly. For those not steeped in computer nonsense, this basically means running services on my own computers at home instead of using other people's computers in the "cloud". Hence the removal of my writing tab and the addition of the new self-hosted overview, complete with details about my main machines. This site isn't quite ready to make the jump yet, but my Jukebox project has successfully migrated over.

For those wondering, Jukebox is my "un-Spotify Spotify" - basically a way to host my own CD rips and such (for personal use, obviously, because laws and all that) with a rather nicer interface than just browsing folders full of MP3s. It's coming along nicely, and I've written up a brief overview on the new tab with a link to the open-source project that's powering the whole thing. There's something quite satisfying about having your own music collection properly organised and accessible from anywhere in the house.

Getting all this set up has meant configuring a computer as a proper server and reimaging my desktop with a fresh Linux distro. It's been a lot, frankly. Add to that the Prusa needing a service and the ThinkPad requiring a fan clean (because of course it did), and you've got a week that's been wall-to-wall technical faff.

Speaking of the Prusa, I seem to have entered my 3D designing pen pots era, which is either a sign of productive organisation or complete procrastination - haven't decided which yet. I've made myself a perfectly sized organiser for my pens, wire brushes, and markers that actually fits properly on my desk for once. More interestingly, I designed a pen pot based on a roughly copied model of the cervical vertebrae for someone important enough to be worth at least four hours of my life spent getting the geometry just right. Quite fun actually, working out the internal structure and making sure it would actually hold pens without toppling over. Maybe my future is in biomedical engineering after all? Though knowing me, I'll probably have moved on to designing something completely different by next week.

But it's not all been resistors and RAM upgrades. On the personal side, it's been another week of proper reflection and daydreaming. About life, about the future, but more importantly about right now. Been thinking about how great my future could be, but that's rather pointless if now isn't also a place where I want to be. Where exactly is that separation between now and the future anyway? Feels like one of those questions that sounds profound until you actually try to pin it down. And will it really be better in the future, or does reaching each milestone just open up more questions, more things to worry about? Some people seem to know exactly what they're going to do with their lives - they've got it all mapped out, degree to career to retirement plan. Meanwhile, I'm sat here with absolutely no idea still. That's honestly because I have too many ideas rather than too few. If I could be a doctor and an engineer and a software developer all at the same time, I'd probably give it a go. Seems trivial when you write it down like that, but stuff like this is genuinely what keeps me up at night. How do you choose one path when there are so many interesting things to explore?

Anyway, that's where I've been this week - knee-deep in servers and existential questions in roughly equal measure. The radio will get fixed eventually, the servers will hopefully stay running, and the big questions will probably still be there next week.

73, Daniel